Scientific Papers (www.scientificpapers.org)
Journal of Knowledge Management, Economics and Information Technology

1
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of
Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia
Authors: Ni Nyoman Yuliarmi, Faculty of Economic and Business,
 Udayana University, ninyomanyuliarmi@gmail.com; Ida
 Ayu Nyoman Saskara, 2Faculty of Economic and Business,
 Udayana University, iansaskara@gmail.com
The aim of this study was to analyze the variables that may affect the
application of the technology to produce handicrafts. The method used to
determine the sample unit of craft businesses of rural households that will be
interviewed are acidental sampling.
 This study uses a quantitative analytical approach. Quantitative
analysis using descriptive statistics and regression of binary logistic analysis.
Based on the analysis, it can be concluded that the variables that significantly
influence the application of technology in rural craftsmen in Bangli Regency is
the income and education level.
 The higher the income level, the higher the possibility of craftsmen
applying modern technologies. Likewise, the education level, the higher the
education level, assuming other variables constant, the possibility of applying
the technology will be higher. While the age and type of business does not
significantly influence the application of technology.

Keywords: Empowerment, Household Industry, Income, Education,
Technology

Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

2
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Introduction

Empowerment of poor communities through strengthening capital,
coaching, and mentoring has been done by the government through the
relevant institutions. However, these efforts have not been felt by all
households in rural craftsmen. This occurs because the craftsmen of rural
households enormous amount of funds available to conduct training is still
very limited, so the government programs related to community
development primarily to the craftsmen of rural households is not optimal.
In addition, the craftsmen who have produced results should be followed up
by helping craft or facilitate the marketing of craft. This is also the problems
faced by the craftsmen during this time.
 Problems also arise because of the use of the existing opportunities
optimally has not been achieved, which is more caused by the weak
managerial capability of human resources. This will have an impact on the
inability of small entrepreneurs run their business well. In addition to the
importance of increasing the role of economic capital/financial and human
capital as a factor of production to increase productivity handicraft business
is generated, then the social capital, culture and skills of artisans in utilizing
existing technology also needs to be improved. Social capital as an asset to
the organization in creating value or an asset to the organization's members
through improved job skills, including influence the success of the work, the
creation of intellectual capital, and efficiency of multifunctional teams to
strengthen relationships with suppliers, production network and
organizational learning [3]. Social capital from time to time need to be
developed, otherwise the company will not be able to compete [6]. Social
capital of the poor people can also be expanded by combining with financial
capital, human and physical capital to help them participate in development
decisions that affect their well-being [13]. Social capital can be seen from the
structure of liabilities, expectations, and beliefs, and social capital can play a
role it must interact with the social structure [23]. In addition to financial
capital, human capital, and social capital, then the use of technology is very
important for this rural Small and Medium Entreprises (SMEs). Although
the technology is still very simple, but it can speed up the production
process.
 Development of the use of technology for developing countries
compared with developed industries are very different [21]. Developing
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

3
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
countries in the use of technology is still labor intensive, while the state
industry, the use of advanced technology tends capital intensive.
Technology can cause a shift in the nature of human materiality. For some
people technology can help them to developing more advanced economies
and may bring classes in public life [7]. In the long term, the use of
appropriate technologies can enhance the role of business industry and be
able to maintain the sales of products, services, and market share [1].
Technology can provide value and benefits of a strong impact to produce a
better performance of the industry. In addition, strong social capital also
have an impact on productivity improvement efforts [1] [5].
 Weak empowerment of the poor people in accessing financial
resources to improve the work is also found in the study [4]. In fulfillment of
the capital of the business activities carried out in its efforts to obtain
business credit is still very low. This has an impact on their weaknesses to
improve empowerment efforts. By looking at the weaknesses of small
businesses for poor households, the role is more real than the government
through relevant institutions which can be done by providing credit without
collateral in order to improve the empowerment of the business.
 Poverty in rural areas is indicated from less helpless communities to
improve the lives of more viable, low ability to access venture capital, and
the low level of productivity of the effort that have done. The low level of
productivity of the work done can also be demonstrated by the lack of their
ability to absorb technology. Weak absorption technology is also due to
their helplessness in accessing capital, and skills. For the craftsmen
sometimes the technology used to be very simple and limited, however there
are also craftsmen who have been using a number of technologies as needed.
Therefore research conducted related to the application of technology can
improve the craftsmen of empowerment efforts. Presence or absence of the
application of technology (modern or traditional) in producing handicrafts,
examined in this study.
 There are several variables that can affect the possibility of applying
a technology. Several variables that affect SMEs in applying computer
technology [20]. The results showed that gender, age, experience and nature
of use (mandatory or voluntary) is a moderating effect on the use of
information systems (the use of computer technology). Entrepreneurship
technology as well as mediating variables also need to be further proof as
endogenous or exogenous variables [1]. The purpose of this study was to
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

4
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
analyze the variables that may affect the application of the technology to
produce handicrafts.

Literature Review
Empowerment
Empowerments often seen as a tool to achieve certain goals and as an end in
itself. Empowerment involves the ability to make choices and communicate
the change process of all components that make up the social structure and
reproduce the power relationships and subsequent unequal distribution of
opportunities and community resources. Some experts postulate that there
are three dimensions of empowerment: empowerment through individual
action, collective empowerment that is interpersonal, and social
empowerment in generating social action, all three dimensions are
interdependent.
 Empowerment is energizing to be concerned is able to move
independently [16]. Empowerment basically have the intent to create a
climate of fair competition and fair, which will provide opportunities to live
and thrive for cooperatives and SMEs. The concept of empowerment is the
result of an interactive process both at the ideological level and at the level
of implementation. On an ideological level, the concept of empowerment is
the result of interaction between concept of the top-down and bottom-up,
the growth strategy and people-centered strategy. In terms of
implementation, the interaction will occur through the struggle between
autonomy. The concept of empowerment but it also contains the context to
side with layers of society who are under the poverty line [4]. The study of
empowerment stated [17]. aims to investigate multiculturalism in the
workplace by using a method based diversity training and development of
empowerment. A method based on the empowerment proved useful in
directing the creation of an exclusive work organization. Empowerment is
efforts were made, including the dissemination of information, providing
knowledge and efforts made to improve the performance of the entire
elements needed for everything. To increase employee competency we need
a policy to act appropriately and can increase their services, thus the
management is very important to give them the expertise, information and
rewards required.
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

5
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Technology
Technology generally produce or create a certain effect, thus to be able to
use it required considerable knowledge. Someone applying certain
technologies certainly have the knowledge of how to use these technologies.
Technology is part of the culture of knowledge and be able to do it right
[22]. Technology can cause a shift in the nature of human materiality [1].
Thus the application of technology in producing a particular product is
needed by the industry in general. If knowledge of the application of these
technologies, properly understood, the production process would be more
efficient.
 Technology also can help employees to speed up the production
process to produce a particular product. The use of technology can promote
the development of small and medium enterprises to diversify the economy
of a country. Information technology is very useful in Small and Medium
Enterprises (SMEs) [2]. Information OF Technologies have a significant
effect on small and medium business sector, especially in the when decrease
of industrial or when there is a high unemployment rate. Small and medium
businesses in India using information technology very quickly [18]. For small
entrepreneurs who understand the benefits of information technology, then
by adopting technology entrepreneurs can take advantage of the promised
benefits as a result of the adoption of information technology, including
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the organization. However, as a
criticism in creating jobs and employment opportunities, small and medium
enterprises are still lagging behind compared to other countries.

Regression with Qualitative Response (Analysis of Binary Logistic)
Binary Logistic Analysis is a statistical technique that the dependent variable
is in the form katagorikal (nominal or nonmetric) and the independent
variable is the metric or nonmetric [9]. Regression Logistic Analysis is also
called "Binary Logistic" Regression analysis," Multinominal Logistics
Regression Analysis "and "Ordinal Logistics Regression Analysis", depending
on the type of scale of the dependent variable that is used. For example, to
classify the dependent variable, a nice guy working or idle, he is a member of
the group or not, from the ruling party both from the right wing or left wing;
a student either graduates or not [14]. Binary Logistic Regression Analysis is
the regression analysis applied to the analysis, where the dependent variable
in the form categorical, or the dependent variable is qualitative. the
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

6
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
dependent variable is qualitative (categorical) quantified by making variable
artificial or dummy variable, with a value of 1 for the variable that appears
and 0 for the other. If the answer to the dependent variable yes = 1, no = 0,
or applying technology = 1, not to apply technology = 0. this analysis resulted
in a regression equation makes it possible to make an accurate estimate of
the likelihood that an individual falls mistake one category (Yes or no).
 Logistic regression is a model of cumulative distribution function
(CDF), which is able to guarantee the value of the dependent variable lies
between 0 and 1 in accordance with the theory of probability. CDF has two
properties, namely: 1) if the independent variable goes up, then P (Yi = 1 |
Xi)also rose, but never past the range 0-1, and 2) the relationship between Pi
and Xi is a non linear so that the rate of change is not the same, but the
gains were bigger, then smaller. When the probability is close to zero, then
the rate of decline is getting smaller, as well as the probability value close to
one, then the rate of increase is smaller [19].

Figure 1: Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF)
In general logistic regression equation for the dependent variable k can be
written as follows:
(1)
ln p/(1-p) = bo + b1 X1 + b2 X 2......BkXk
(2)
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

7
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
odds (T / X1,X2, ...... Xk) = p/(1-p)
(3)
The probability P i must be a value between 0 and 1, because it has a limit: 0
â‰¤ E (Y i /X i )â‰¤ 1, which is the conditional expectation (conditional probability)
must be a value between 0 and [8].
Research Methodology
The study was conducted using a quantitative approach. The relationship
between the independent variables affect the dependent variable is the
associative nature. The study was conducted at the handicraft industry of
rural households in Bangli Regency of Bali Province. The election of rural
household handicraft industry as the research object because the majority of
people in rural areas are classified as less able to be in this business group. In
addition, this business is able to absorb labor is relatively large. Although
there have been economic crisis in a sustainable manner, but these efforts
still survive and produce. The results of this effort is a product that is mostly
used for the benefit and in the interests of supporting tourism and religious
ceremonies. The research location chosen is Penglipuran tourist village that
has business units as supporting the tourism sector, which represents small
businesses in rural areas.
 The population in this study is the number of business units in
Bangli regency. Number of sample units to be chosen to represent this
population using a quota sampling as many as 40 respondents. The method
used to determine the sample unit of craft businesses of rural households
that will be interviewed are acidental sampling. The number of samples that
have met the requirements for using binary logistic regression analysis
techniques. This research was conducted as an application of the
strengthening of the course Econometrics, with examples of this research
students will be more interested in using binary logistic analytical
techniques of research they do.
 The collection of data used in this study using interviews.
Structured interviews were used to collect primary data through interviews
to the respondent, using the list of questions prepared in advance. Besides, it
also conducted in-depth interview to the informant craftsmen who
represented the respondents.
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

8
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
 In this study, there are two types of variables: 1) Variable
independent dan, 2) the dependent variable. The independent variables
were age, income, education, type of business and the dependent variable is
the application of technology. When applying modern technologies dummy
= 1 and when traditional technologies, dummy = 0. This study uses a
quantitative analytical approach. Quantitative analysis using descriptive
statistics and binary logistic regression analysis.

Analysis and Result
Descriptive Analysis
Descriptive analysis described in this study correlated with age, income,
education, type of business and application of technology. Each respondent
characteristics are presented as follows.
1. Characteristics of Respondents by Age
Overall respondents belong to the age group 25-68 years of productive range
as instructed in Table 4.1. Cumulatively, about 84.5 percent of respondents
less than 50 years old. At that age range can be said respondents are in the
productive age, because productivity tends to increase and will tend to think
at the age of 50 years. At the age of 50 years, will tend to start sickly which
would result in a decrease in productivity. Stated age range are at high
productivity is between 40-49 years, who shown by about 90 per cent of
respondents. The characteristics of the respondent's age is presented in
Figure 2.

Figure 2: Characteristics of Respondents by Age

2. Characteristics of Respondents by
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

9
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Revenuein this study is the income received by respondents for one month
in running its business as a craft industry in rural households. The results
showed that the respondents' income ranged between Rp. 300,000 - Rp.
8.000.000. Distribution of respondents based on income level are shown in
Table 4.2. On the average income of respondents Rp 2 million per month.
When traced further indicated only a small percentage of respondents had
pendapata above average, which is around 25 percent, and the rest is mostly
income â‰¤ average income. Thus it can be said that the respondents' income
is still very low.

Figure 3: Characteristics of Respondents Based on Revenue

3. Characteristics of Respondents by
Educationrespondents in this study is measured by years of success. The
majority of respondents surveyed are educated finished elementary school
(6 years), and only 2.5 percent were educated College (graduated Diploma).
Distribution of respondents based on the level of education can be shown as
Figure 4.
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

10
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017

Figure 4: Characteristics of Respondents by Education

4. Characteristics of Respondents by Type of Business
Type of business in this study was measured using dummy variables, one for
the type of woven handicraft businesses and 0 for types other craft
businesses. The results showed that only a small proportion of respondents
who pursue woven bamboo crafts and others pursue handicrafts besides
bamboo crafts such as wood carvings, household appliances from wood.

5. Characteristics of Respondents Based on Application of Technology
The use of technology that is intended in this study are craftsmen who use
the technology in producing handicrafts. The technology in question is
modern technology (using an electric mower, electric drill, electric saw), and
traditional technologies. If craftsmen using modern technology given
dummy 1 and using traditional technologies given dummy 0. The results
showed that 70 percent of respondents are still using traditional technology
and only 30 percent are using modern technologies.
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

11
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017

Figure 5: Characteristics of Respondents by Application of Technology

Analysis Binary Logistic
Data were analyzed with binary logistic using the program Eviews results
simpler, as shown Table 4.1.

Table 1: Logistic Regression Analysis
Dependent Variable: TECHNOLOGY
Method: ML - Binary Logit (Quadratic hill climbing)
Date: 03/03/15 Time: 10:34
Sample: 1 40
Included observations: 40
Convergence achieved after 5 iterations
Covariance matrix computed using second derivatives
Variable Coefficient Std. Error z-Statistic Prob.
C -10.17468 5.085410 -2.000759 0.0454
AGE 0.040612 0.082509 0.492217 0.6226
INCOME 0.737675 0.357230 2.064985 0.0389
EDUCATION 0.660678 0.294722 2.241699 0.0250
BUSINESS_KIND -0.574676 1.536242 -0.374079 0.7083
McFadden R-squared 0.455051 Mean dependent var 0.300000
S.D. dependent var 0.464095 S.E. of regression 0.343239
Akaike info criterion 0.915780 Sum squared resid 4.123449
Schwarz criterion 1.126890 Log likelihood -13.31560
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

12
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Hannan-Quinn criter. 0.992110 Deviance 26.63119
Restr. Deviance 48.86914 Restr. log likelihood -24.43457
LR statistic 22.23795 Avg. log likelihood -0.332890
Prob(LR statistic) 0.000180
Obs with Dep=0 28 Total obs 40
Obs with Dep=1 12
The processed data may be presented in the form of the following equation:
ln ð‘
1âˆ’ð‘ =
-10.175 + 0.041
(age)
+ 0.738
(income)
+ 0.661
(education)
- 0.575
(business
kind)
S b = (5.085) (0.083) (0.357) (0.295) (1.536)
Z = (-2.000) (0.492) (2.065) (2.242) (-0.374)
Sig = (0.045) (0.623) (0.039) (0.025) (0.708)
McFadden R 2 = 0.455 LR statistic = 22.238 Sig.=0.000

Substituting these figures, then made the following equation:
ð‘
1âˆ’ð‘ =e
(-10.175+0.041age+0.738income+0.661education-0.575businesskind)
p=1/(1+e
(-10.175+0.041age+0.738income+0.661education-0.575businesskind)
)

 Simultaneously independent variables as age, income, education,
and business types significantly affect the application of technology. This
can be demonstrated by LR statistic = 22.238 (equal to x 2 = 22.238) at SPSS,
greater value x 2 table = 9.488 (df = 5-1 = 4) at the level of significant 5
percent. The processed data can also be seen that McFadden R 2
 for 0455 the
same as the coefficient of determination in the usual regression model. This
means that 45.5 percent of the variation application of technology is affected
by variations in age, income, educational level, and the type of business and
the remaining 54.5 percent is influenced by other variables outside the
model. Thus there are many other variables that affect the actual
implementation of technology for the craftsmen. For example the
experience as craftsmen, the need to apply modern technology, or other
variables.

Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

13
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Discussion
The influence of age on the application of technology
Age may affect the craftsmen to use technology in conducting business
activities. A young age tend to be very innovative and productive in
production, so they tend to more quickly adopt the technology compared to
the old age. Results of research conducted showed that age influence the
application of technology in the management of SMEs [20].
 The results of this study, when analyzed using binary logistic
craftsmen showed that age does not affect the use of technology in
producing handicrafts. Descriptively, the average age of the respondents
tend to be still very productive. Respondents in this study had a statistically
significant probability/possibility that in the application of modern
technologies. This means that age does not determine a craftsman in the
application of modern technology or traditional in this study. The results of
statistical analysis indicated by the value of z = 0492 and a probability
value/significance 0.623> 0.05, not significant. This means that age does not
significantly affect the craftsmen within their possibilities to apply modern
technologies. This study differs from studies Teddy et al (2009), which
resulted in the conclusion that the age of the entrepreneur affect the use of
technology in SMEs studied [20].

Influence Of Technology Application Revenue
Craftsmen revenue can influence their chances for adoption of the
technology. The analysis showed that the income of a significant effect on
the possibility of craftsmen to apply modern technologies. The higher the
income level, the possibility of the craftsmen to implement the use of
modern technology compared with traditional technology are also getting
bigger. The results of this study, when analyzed using binary logistic showed
that the craftsmen income effect on their likelihood to apply modern
technology in producing handicrafts. Z value count = 2,065, with a
probability value 0.039 <0.05. The higher the income level there is a
tendency craftsmen to implement the use of modern technologies. Until
now, this research was conducted, mostly craftsmen still use traditional
technologies to the production process. They are willing to use more
modern technology, but the ability to purchase the equipment from the
electricity is limited. Because of very limited capital owned then they still
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

14
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
carry out business activities as conducted sat. The desire to implement more
modern technology than the actual craftsmen is their desire.
 So it can be concluded that there is a desire from the craftsmen to
implement more modern technology to produce handicraft items, but their
ability to buy more modern equipment is still inadequate, because the
income received is still relatively low. The craftsmen aware of the use of
more modern technology can increase the production of handicraft business
is done, so as to increase empowerment of craft businesses that occupied so
far. That view also reinforces the opinion of the [2], that technology very
helpful in Small And Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Likewise reinforces the
opinion expressed by Sanjay and Pravada (2013), that technology, as well as
information technology have a significant effect on the sector of small and
medium enterprises [18]. From the interviews that have been done by the
craftsmen, it can be said that when income increases, the likelihood of their
craftsmen to apply modern technology will be even greater.

Effect of Education Against Application of Technology
The level of education is also expected to influence technology
implementation. If the respondent's educational level is high then the
chances of them apply the technology also higher. The results showed that
the respondents' education level as measured by years of success affect the
application of the technology significantly. This is indicated by the count z-
value 2.242, with a probability value 0.025<0.05. This means that the higher
the education level of respondents their chances to apply modern
technology also higher.

Influence of The Type of Business the Application of Technology
This type of business is also expected to affect the application of technology.
Using or not using modern technology is also determined by the type of
business generated. If the type of business that is generated is willed into
their use of modern technology, the craftsmen are trying to use it. However,
when using simple technology craftsmen can still produce craft items they
perceive that the use of traditional technology is still quite adequate. In this
study, the processed data showed that the type of business does not
significantly influence the application of technology. Type of business using
dummy variables in the analysis. When this type of business are woven
bamboo given dummy 1 and the other is zero. Turns craftsmen who produce
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

15
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
handicrafts such as woven bamboo, the possibility of applying modern
technologies lower than those producing craft items instead of woven
bamboo. Results of the analysis showed z-statistic = 0374, with probability =
0708> 0.05. So it can be said that this type of business does not significantly
influence the application of modern technologies.
 Craftsmen who use traditional technology of the view that to
produce handicrafts that occupied not have to use modern technology,
although the production process more time consuming than using modern
technologies.
 The craftsmen who produce results woven bamboo crafts this did
not have to use modern equipment, because they weave more use of hand
skills. Another case when craftsmen that use materials from wood, may need
more modern equipment higher. Craftsmen relationship with fellow
craftsmen as friend connections are very strong. Mutual trust is very high
and helping each other is a reflection of the strength of social capital in the
business environment of the craftsmen. Relationship strong friendship can
develop mutual respect between each other in a community. Sense of
community and kinship form a network also helps artisans who lack the
equipment to produce a product, can be helped by friends or other relatives
in their environment. This indicates there is a relationship which reflects the
strong social capital to run a business. With borrowed equipment with a
neighbor or friend, then they can work more quickly and the time used to
produce handicraft items are also shorter, thereby improving productivity.
Social capital featuring the company's ability to benefit from the network.
These advantages can include access to knowledge, resources, technology,
market and business opportunities. A bond formed in the network as supply
contracts between the companies with the other create social capital
resources. When interactions in relationships between companies rose,
social capital becomes better, thus potentially increase profits. This level of
trust and dependence rational between companies in a special relationship
is a qualitative indicator of the relational dimension. The higher the trust
between each other, and the better relations can improve confidence.
Conclusion and Recommendations
Based on the analysis, it can be concluded that the variables that
significantly influence the application of technology in rural craftsmen in
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

16
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
Bangli Regency is the income and education level. The higher the income
level, the higher the possibility of craftsmen applying modern technologies.
Likewise, the education level, the higher the education level, assuming other
variables constant, the possibility of applying the technology will be higher.
The existence of strong fraternal relations in a community environment
craftsmen can form a bond of trust between the network and they reflect
strong social capital. This can help the process of production due to modern
equipment that is used to speed up the production process they can borrow
from friends or relatives. Thus, the production process can run more quickly
to support increasing empowerment of the effort by the craftsmen. While
the age and type of business does not significantly influence the application
of technology.
 Craftsmen should be still consider the use of modern technology
such as drill and electric planer to produce handicraft items, thus increasing
productivity. By using modern technology, the time used to produce
handicrafts shorter compared to just using traditional technology. The
craftsmen are also advised to retain the social capital that has existed so far,
and still maintain good relations with fellow craftsmen in the business
environment.
References
[1]. Aryaningsih, Ni Nyoman. 2014. Dissertation.Product
commoditization, Technology, Entrepreneurship Fair Economists
Against Revenue In Industrial Statue In Sub Tegalalang Gianyar,
[2]. Berisha-namani, Mihane. 2009. The Role of Information Technology
in Small and Medium Sized Enterprises in Kosova. Fulbright
Academy Conference. Facullty of Economics, University of Pristina,
Kasova.
[3]. Chegini, Mehrdad Goudarzvard, Alipour, Hamidreza, Zamani, Aida.
2012. The Relationship between social capital and Inter-
organizational entrepreneurship in Rasht Industrial City, Iran.
Journal of Basic Applied Scientific Research 2 (1/2/3): 389-401.
[4]. Christiawan Hendratmoko and Life Marsudi. 2010. Analysis of
Socio-Economic Empowerment Fishermen Fish In Cilacap. Socio-
Economic Dynamics Volume 6 Number 1 Issue May 2010, PP: 1-17.
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

17
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
[5]. Coleman, James S. 1988. Social Capital in the Creation of Human
Capital. The American Journal of Sociology, Vol.94, Supplement:
Organizations and Institutions: Sociological and Economic
Approaches to the Analysis of Social Structure, pp. S95-S120.
[6]. Deng, Wendong and Hendrikse, George. 2014. Social Cooperative
Capital-Towards a LifecyclePerspective.Poster paper prepared for
presentation at the EAAE 2014 Congress "Agri-Food and Rulal
Innovations for Healthier Scienties". Slovenia 26 to 29 August.
[7]. Gagnon, Marc-Andre.2007. "Capital Power and Knowledge
According to Thorstein Veblen: reinterpreting the Knowledge-Based
Economy". Jei. Journal of Economic Issues. Vol.XLI No. 2 (June). Pp
593-600.
[8]. Gujarat, Damodar N. and Porter, Darwin c.2010. Basics of
Econometrics Book One, Issue 5. Translator: Eugenia
Mardanugraha, Sita Wadhani and Calos Mangunsong, Salemba
Jakarta
[9]. Hair, J. F, William C. Black, Barry J. Babin, Rolph E. Anderson. 2010.
Multivariate Data Analysis, Seventh Edition. New Jersey. Person
Prentice Hall.
[10].Hakim, Lukman and Zuber, Ahmad. 2008. The Geographic
Dimension and Rural Poverty. Media Economics. Vol. 14 December
[11]. Harefa, Mandala. 2008. Small and Medium Enterprises Policy and
Role in the Economy. Study 4 (2): 29-55.
[12]. Hughes, Mathew and Robert K. Perrons. 2010. Shaping and re-
shaping of social capital in buyer-supplier relationships. Journal of
BusinessResearch:2-8.an
[13]. Majee, Wilson. 2015."Cooperative,The Brewing Pots for Social
Capital An Exploration of Social Capital Creation in a Homecare
Worker-OwnedCooperative",(ONLINE) (cited 2016 Des 20)
Available from: http://www.oeockent.org/download/Cooperatives/
Cooperatives-the-brewing-pots-for-social-capital.pdf.
[14]. Ã–may Ã‡okluk. 2010. Logistic Regression: Concept And Application.
Ankara University Faculty of Educational Sciences, 06590
Ankara/Turkey.
[15]. Prawirokusumo, Soeharto. 2001. People's Economy (Concepts,
Policy and Strategy) BPFE, Yogyakarta.
Binary Logistic Analysis: Empowerment of Rural Household Craft Industry
in Bangli Regency, Bali, Indonesia

18
Vol. VII, Issue 2
April 2017
[16]. Roebyantho, Haryati & Ety Padmiati. 2007. Empowerment
Network Social Institution in Strengthening Social Security Society
of the Province of South Sumatra. Journal of Research and
Development of Social Welfare Vol.12 N0 03, hal.33-44. http: //
www.google.com.
[17]. Sippola, Aulikki. 2007. Developing culturally diverse organizations-
a participative and empowerment-based method. Journal of Women
in Management Review, volume 22, No. 4, pp: 253-273.
[18].Sanjay D. Beley And Pravada S Bhatarkar. 2013. The Role Of
Information Technology In Small And Medium Sized Business.
International Journal Of Scientific And Research Publications,
Volume 3, Issue 2, February 2013, ISSN 2250-3153
[19]. Suyana Utama. 2013. Econometrics (Part One). Fkultas
Economics and Business, University of Udayana.
[20]. Teddy Oswari, E. Susy Suhendra, Ati Harmoni. 2008.
Information Technology Acceptance Model Behavior: Effect of
Variable Predictors, Moderating Effect, Impact Use of Information
Technology on Productivity and Performance of Small Business.
Seminar Presented at National Scientific Computing and
Intelligence Systems (KOMMIT 2008), University Gunadarma
Depok
[21]. Todaro, Michael P. 1994. duna Economic Development in the Third
World (Fourth Edition Volume I). Jakarta: Erlangga
[22]. Williams, Raymond. 1975. Culture and Society 1780-1950.
Harmondsworth: Penguin 1958.
[23]. Yustika Ahmad Erani. 2013. Institutional Economics,
Paradigms, Theory and Policy. Jakarta Erlangga.


