 Brothers

     Now  the Kite brings home the night        That  the Bat sets free--     The herds are shut in  and hut        For loosed till dawn are we.     This is the hour of pride and power,        Talon and  and claw.     Oh, hear the call!--Good hunting all        That keep the Jungle Law!     Night-Song in the Jungle

It was seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the  hills  Wolf woke up from his day's rest, scratched himself, yawned,  out his paws one after the other to get rid of the sleepy  their tips. Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose dropped across  tumbling, squealing cubs, and the moon shone into the mouth of  where they all lived. "!" said Father Wolf. "It is time  again." He was going to spring down hill when a little shadow  bushy tail crossed the threshold and whined: "Good luck go with you,  of the Wolves. And good luck and strong white teeth go with  that they may never forget the hungry in this world."

It was the jackal--Tabaqui, the Dish-licker--and the wolves of  Tabaqui because he runs about making mischief, and , and eating rags and pieces of leather from the -heaps. But they are afraid of him too, because Tabaqui,  anyone else in the jungle, is apt to go mad, and then he  he was ever afraid of anyone, and runs through the forest  in his way. Even the tiger runs and hides when little  mad, for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can  wild creature. We call it hydrophobia, but they call it ----and run.

"Enter, then, and look," said Father Wolf stiffly, "but there is no ."

"For a wolf, no," said Tabaqui, "but for so mean a person as myself  bone is a good feast. Who are we, the -log [the jackal people],to pick and choose?" He scuttled to the back of the cave, where  the bone of a buck with some meat on it, and sat cracking the .

"All thanks for this good meal," he said, licking his lips. " are the noble children! How large are their eyes! And so ! Indeed, indeed, I might have remembered that the children of  men from the beginning."

Now, Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing  as to compliment children to their faces. It pleased him to  and Father Wolf look uncomfortable.

Tabaqui sat still, rejoicing in the mischief that he had made, and  said spitefully:

"Shere , the Big One, has shifted his hunting grounds. He will  these hills for the next moon, so he has told me."

Shere  was the tiger who lived near the  River,  away.

"He has no right!" Father Wolf began angrily--"By the Law of the  has no right to change his quarters without due warning. He  every head of game within ten miles, and I--I have to kill , these days."

"His mother did not call him  [the Lame One] for nothing,"  Wolf quietly. "He has been lame in one foot from his birth.  why he has only killed cattle. Now the villagers of the   with him, and he has come here to make our villagers angry.They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away, and we and  must run when the grass is set alight. Indeed, we are  to Shere !"

"Shall I tell him of your gratitude?" said Tabaqui.

"Out!" snapped Father Wolf. "Out and hunt with thy master. Thou  harm enough for one night."

"I go," said Tabaqui quietly. " can hear Shere  below in . I might have saved myself the message."

Father Wolf listened, and below in the valley that ran down to a  he heard the dry, angry, snarly, singsong whine of a tiger who  nothing and does not care if all the jungle knows it.

"The fool!" said Father Wolf. "To begin a night's work with that noise!Does he think that our buck are like his fat  bullocks?"

". It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night," said MotherWolf. "It is Man."

The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to  every quarter of the compass. It was the noise that  and gypsies sleeping in the open, and makes them  into the very mouth of the tiger.

"Man!" said Father Wolf, showing all his white teeth. "! Are  enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must eat Man, and  ground too!"

The Law of the Jungle, which never orders anything without a reason,forbids every beast to eat Man except when he is killing to show  how to kill, and then he must hunt outside the hunting  his pack or tribe. The real reason for this is that man-, sooner or later, the arrival of white men on elephants, , and hundreds of brown men with gongs and rockets and torches.Then everybody in the jungle suffers. The reason the beasts give  is that Man is the weakest and most defenseless of all , and it is unsportsmanlike to touch him. They say too--and it --that man-eaters become , and lose their teeth.

The purr grew louder, and ended in the full-throated "!" of  charge.

Then there was a howl--an untigerish howl--from Shere . "He ," said Mother Wolf. "What is it?"

Father Wolf ran out a few paces and heard Shere  muttering  savagely as he tumbled about in the scrub.

"The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a  campfire,and has burned his feet," said Father Wolf with a grunt. "Tabaqui  him."

"Something is coming uphill," said Mother Wolf, twitching one ear. "."

The bushes rustled a little in the thicket, and Father Wolf  his haunches under him, ready for his leap. Then, if you had , you would have seen the most wonderful thing in the world-- checked in mid-spring. He made his bound before he saw what it washe was jumping at, and then he tried to stop himself. The result  he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet,  where he left ground.

"Man!" he snapped. "A man's cub. Look!"

Directly in front of him, holding on by a low branch, stood a  baby who could just walk--as soft and as dimpled a little  ever came to a wolf's cave at night. He looked up into Father , and laughed.

"Is that a man's cub?" said Mother Wolf. "I have never seen one.  here."

A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can, if necessary, mouth an  breaking it, and though Father Wolf's jaws closed right on  back not a tooth even scratched the skin as he laid it  the cubs.

"How little! How naked, and--how bold!" said Mother Wolf softly.  was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide."! He is taking his meal with the others. And so this is a . Now, was there ever a wolf that could boast of a man's cub  children?"

"I have heard now and again of such a thing, but never in our Pack or  time," said Father Wolf. "He is altogether without hair, and  kill him with a touch of my foot. But see, he looks up and is ."

The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave, for Shere  square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance. Tabaqui,behind him, was squeaking: "My lord, my lord, it went in here!"

"Shere  does us great honor," said Father Wolf, but his eyes  angry. "What does Shere  need?"

"My quarry. A man's cub went this way," said Shere . "Its  run off. Give it to me."

Shere  had jumped at a  campfire, as Father Wolf , and was furious from the pain of his burned feet. But Father  that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for a tiger to come . Even where he was, Shere  shoulders and forepaws were  want of room, as a man's would be if he tried to fight in a barrel.

"The Wolves are a free people," said Father Wolf. "They take orders  Head of the Pack, and not from any striped cattle-killer. The  is ours--to kill if we choose."

" choose and  do not choose! What talk is this of choosing? By  that I killed, am I to stand nosing into your dog's den for my ? It is I, Shere , who speak!"

The tiger's roar filled the cave with thunder. Mother Wolf shook  of the cubs and sprang forward, her eyes, like two green moons  darkness, facing the blazing eyes of Shere .

"And it is I,  [The Demon], who answers. The man's cub is mine,--mine to me! He shall not be killed. He shall live to run  Pack and to hunt with the Pack; and in the end, look you, hunter  naked cubs--frog-eater--fish-killer--he shall hunt thee! Now , or by the  that I killed (I eat no starved cattle),   to thy mother, burned beast of the jungle, lamer than   into the world! Go!"

Father Wolf looked on amazed. He had almost forgotten the days when  Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolves, when she ran  Pack and was not called The Demon for compliment's sake. Shere  have faced Father Wolf, but he could not stand up against MotherWolf, for he knew that where he was she had all the advantage of , and would fight to the death. So he backed out of the cave , and when he was clear he shouted:

"Each dog barks in his own yard! We will see what the Pack will say  fostering of man-cubs. The cub is mine, and to my teeth he  in the end, O bush-tailed thieves!"

Mother Wolf threw herself down panting among the cubs, and Father  to her gravely:

"Shere  speaks this much truth. The cub must be shown to the Pack.Wilt thou still keep him, Mother?"

"Keep him!" she gasped. "He came naked, by night, alone and very hungry;yet he was not afraid! Look, he has pushed one of my babes to one . And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have runoff to the  while the villagers here hunted through all  in revenge! Keep him? Assuredly I will keep him. Lie still, . O thou --for  the Frog I will call thee--the time  when thou wilt hunt Shere  as he has hunted thee."

"But what will our Pack say?" said Father Wolf.

The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may, when , withdraw from the Pack he belongs to. But as soon as his  old enough to stand on their feet he must bring them to the PackCouncil, which is generally held once a month at full moon, in  the other wolves may identify them. After that inspection the  free to run where they please, and until they have killed  buck no excuse is accepted if a grown wolf of the Pack kills  them. The punishment is death where the murderer can be found; and  think for a minute you will see that this must be so.

Father Wolf waited till his cubs could run a little, and then on  of the Pack Meeting took them and  and Mother Wolf to  Rock--a hilltop covered with stones and boulders where a  could hide. , the great gray Lone Wolf, who led all the  strength and cunning, lay out at full length on his rock,  him sat forty or more wolves of every size and color, -colored veterans who could handle a buck alone to young -year-olds who thought they could. The Lone Wolf had led them for  now. He had fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth, and once  been beaten and left for dead; so he knew the manners and  men. There was very little talking at the Rock. The cubs tumbled  other in the center of the circle where their mothers and , and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub,  him carefully, and return to his place on noiseless feet. Sometimes  would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure  had not been overlooked.  from his rock would cry: "  Law-- know the Law. Look well, O Wolves!" And the anxious  take up the call: "Look--look well, O Wolves!"

At last--and Mother Wolf's neck bristles lifted as the time came-- pushed " the Frog," as they called him, into the center,where he sat laughing and playing with some pebbles that glistened  moonlight.

 never raised his head from his paws, but went on with  cry: "Look well!" A muffled roar came up from behind --the voice of Shere  crying: "The cub is mine. Give him tome. What have the Free People to do with a man's cub?"  never  his ears. All he said was: "Look well, O Wolves! What  Free People to do with the orders of any save the Free People? !"

There was a chorus of deep growls, and a young wolf in his fourth  back Shere  question to : "What have the Free People todo with a man's cub?" Now, the Law of the Jungle lays down that if  any dispute as to the right of a cub to be accepted by the Pack,  be spoken for by at least two members of the Pack who are not  and mother.

"Who speaks for this cub?" said . "Among the Free People ?" There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for what she  be her last fight, if things came to fighting.

Then the only other creature who is allowed at the Pack Council--,the sleepy brown bear who teaches the wolf cubs the Law of the Jungle:old , who can come and go where he pleases because he eats  and roots and honey--rose upon his hind quarters and grunted.

"The man's cub--the man's cub?" he said. "I speak for the man's cub.There is no harm in a man's cub. I have no gift of words, but I  truth. Let him run with the Pack, and be entered with the others.  will teach him."

"We need yet another," said . " has spoken, and he is  for the young cubs. Who speaks besides ?"

A black shadow dropped down into the circle. It was  the , inky black all over, but with the panther markings  in certain lights like the pattern of watered silk. Everybody , and nobody cared to cross his path; for he was as cunning , as bold as the wild buffalo, and as reckless as the . But he had a voice as soft as wild honey dripping from a tree,and a skin softer than down.

"O , and  the Free People," he purred, "I have no right in , but the Law of the Jungle says that if there is a doubt  not a killing matter in regard to a new cub, the life of that cub maybe bought at a price. And the Law does not say who may or may not  price. Am I right?"

"Good! Good!" said the young wolves, who are always hungry. "Listen . The cub can be bought for a price. It is the Law."

"Knowing that I have no right to speak here, I ask your leave."

"Speak then," cried twenty voices.

"To kill a naked cub is shame. Besides, he may make better sport for  he is grown.  has spoken in his behalf. Now to   will add one bull, and a fat one, newly killed, not half a  here, if  will accept the man's cub according to the Law. Is ?"

There was a clamor of scores of voices, saying: "What matter? He  in the winter rains. He will scorch in the sun. What harm  naked frog do us? Let him run with the Pack. Where is the bull,? Let him be accepted." And then came  deep bay, crying:"Look well--look well, O Wolves!"

 was still deeply interested in the pebbles, and he did not  the wolves came and looked at him one by one. At last they all  the hill for the dead bull, and only , , ,  own wolves were left. Shere  roared still in the night,  was very angry that  had not been handed over to him.

", roar well," said , under his whiskers, "for the time  when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune, or  nothing of man."

"It was well done," said . "Men and their cubs are very wise.  be a help in time."

"Truly, a help in time of need; for none can hope to lead the ," said .

 said nothing. He was thinking of the time that comes to  of every pack when his strength goes from him and he gets  feebler, till at last he is killed by the wolves and a new  up--to be killed in his turn.

"Take him away," he said to Father Wolf, "and train him as befits one  Free People."

And that is how  was entered into the  Wolf Pack for  of a bull and on  good word.

Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years, and  at all the wonderful life that  led among the wolves,because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books.  up with the cubs, though they, of course, were grown wolves  he was a child. And Father Wolf taught him his business, and  of things in the jungle, till every rustle in the grass,  of the warm night air, every note of the owls above his head,every scratch of a bat's claws as it roosted for a while in a tree,  splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as  him as the work of his office means to a business man. When he  learning he sat out in the sun and slept, and ate and went to . When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools;  he wanted honey ( told him that honey and nuts were just  to eat as raw meat) he climbed up for it, and that  him how to do.  would lie out on a branch and call, ", Little Brother," and at first  would cling like the sloth,but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost  as the gray ape. He took his place at the Council Rock, too,when the Pack met, and there he discovered that if he stared hard at , the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes, and so he used to  fun. At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the  his friends, for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in . He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night,and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts, but he had  of men because  showed him a square box with a dropgate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it,and told him that it was a trap. He loved better than anything else  with  into the dark warm heart of the forest, to sleep  the drowsy day, and at night see how  did .  killed right and left as he felt hungry, and so --with one exception. As soon as he was old enough to ,  told him that he must never touch cattle because he  bought into the Pack at the price of a bull's life. "All the  ," said , "and thou  kill everything that thou  enough to kill; but for the sake of the bull that bought  must never kill or eat any cattle young or old. That is the Law  Jungle."  obeyed faithfully.

And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know  is learning any lessons, and who has nothing in the world to think  things to eat.

Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere  was not a  be trusted, and that some day he must kill Shere . But though  wolf would have remembered that advice every hour,   because he was only a boy--though he would have called himself a  he had been able to speak in any human tongue.

Shere  was always crossing his path in the jungle, for as   and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with  wolves of the Pack, who followed him for scraps, a thing  never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to  bounds. Then Shere  would flatter them and wonder that  young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a . "They tell me," Shere  would say, "that at Council   look him between the eyes." And the young wolves would growl .

, who had eyes and ears everywhere, knew something of this,  or twice he told  in so many words that Shere  would  some day.  would laugh and answer: "I have the Pack and I ; and , though he is so lazy, might strike a blow or two for . Why should I be afraid?"

It was one very warm day that a new notion came to --born  that he had heard. Perhaps  the Porcupine had told him;but he said to  when they were deep in the jungle, as the boy  his head on  beautiful black skin, "Little Brother,  have I told thee that Shere  is thy enemy?"

"As many times as there are nuts on that palm," said , who,naturally, could not count. "What of it? I am sleepy, ,   is all long tail and loud talk--like , the Peacock."

"But this is no time for sleeping.  knows it; I know it; the  it; and even the foolish, foolish deer know. Tabaqui has told ."

"! !" said . "Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some  that I was a naked man's cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts. But  Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm-tree  him better manners."

"That was foolishness, for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker, he  told thee of something that concerned thee closely. Open , Little Brother. Shere  dare not kill thee in the jungle. ,  is very old, and soon the day comes when he cannot  buck, and then he will be leader no more. Many of the wolves  thee over when thou  brought to the Council first are , and the young wolves believe, as Shere  has taught them,  man-cub has no place with the Pack. In a little time thou wilt be ."

"And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers?" . "I was born in the jungle. I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle,and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn.Surely they are my brothers!"

 stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes."Little Brother," said he, "feel under my jaw."

 put up his strong brown hand, and just under  , where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the glossy hair,he came upon a little bald spot.

"There is no one in the jungle that knows that I, , carry --the mark of the collar; and yet, Little Brother, I was born , and it was among men that my mother died--in the cages of  palace at . It was because of this that I paid the  thee at the Council when thou  a little naked cub. Yes, I  born among men. I had never seen the jungle. They fed me  from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was ----and no man's plaything, and I broke the silly lock with  of my paw and came away. And because I had learned the ways of men,I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere . Is it not so?"

"Yes," said , "all the jungle fear --all except ."

"Oh, thou art a man's cub," said the Black Panther very tenderly. " as I returned to my jungle, so thou must go back to men at last-- men who are thy brothers--if thou art not killed in the Council."

"But why--but why should any wish to kill me?" said .

"Look at me," said . And  looked at him steadily  eyes. The big panther turned his head away in half a minute.

"That is why," he said, shifting his paw on the leaves. "Not even I  thee between the eyes, and I was born among men, and I love thee,Little Brother. The others they hate thee because their eyes cannot ; because thou art wise; because thou  pulled out thorns  feet--because thou art a man."

"I did not know these things," said  sullenly, and he  his heavy black eyebrows.

"What is the Law of the Jungle? Strike first and then give tongue.  very carelessness they know that thou art a man. But be wise. It  my heart that when  misses his next kill--and at each  costs him more to pin the buck--the Pack will turn against him  thee. They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock, and then----I have it!" said , leaping up. "Go thou down quickly  men's huts in the valley, and take some of the Red Flower which  there, so that when the time comes thou  have even a  than I or  or those of the Pack that love thee. Get the ."

By Red Flower  meant fire, only no creature in the jungle  fire by its proper name. Every beast lives in deadly fear of it,and invents a hundred ways of describing it.

"The Red Flower?" said . "That grows outside their huts in . I will get some."

"There speaks the man's cub," said  proudly. "Remember that  in little pots. Get one swiftly, and keep it by thee for time ."

"Good!" said . "I go. But art thou sure, O my "-- his arm around the splendid neck and looked deep into the --"art thou sure that all this is Shere  doing?"

"By the Broken Lock that freed me, I am sure, Little Brother."

"Then, by the Bull that bought me, I will pay Shere  full tale forthis, and it may be a little over," said , and he bounded away.

"That is a man. That is all a man," said  to himself, lying . "Oh, Shere , never was a blacker hunting than that frog-  ten years ago!"

 was far and far through the forest, running hard, and his  hot in him. He came to the cave as the evening mist rose, and drewbreath, and looked down the valley. The cubs were out, but MotherWolf, at the back of the cave, knew by his breathing that something  her frog.

"What is it, Son?" she said.

"Some bat's chatter of Shere ," he called back. "I hunt among  fields tonight," and he plunged downward through the bushes,  stream at the bottom of the valley. There he checked, for he  yell of the Pack hunting, heard the bellow of a hunted ,and the snort as the buck turned at bay. Then there were wicked,  from the young wolves: "! ! Let the Lone Wolf show . Room for the leader of the Pack! Spring, !"

The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold, for  heard  of his teeth and then a yelp as the  knocked him over  forefoot.

He did not wait for anything more, but dashed on; and the yells  behind him as he ran into the croplands where the .

" spoke truth," he panted, as he nestled down in some  by the window of a hut. "To-morrow is one day both for   me."

Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the fire  hearth. He saw the husbandman's wife get up and feed it in the  black lumps. And when the morning came and the mists were all  cold, he saw the man's child pick up a wicker pot plastered  earth, fill it with lumps of red-hot charcoal, put it under , and go out to tend the cows in the .

"Is that all?" said . "If a cub can do it, there is nothing ." So he strode round the corner and met the boy, took the pot  hand, and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear.

"They are very like me," said , blowing into the pot as he  the woman do. "This thing will die if I do not give it things "; and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff. Halfway  hill he met  with the morning dew shining like moonstones  coat.

" has missed," said the Panther. "They would have killed him lastnight, but they needed thee also. They were looking for thee on ."

"I was among the plowed lands. I am ready. See!"  held up -pot.

"Good! Now, I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff,  the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it. Art thou ?"

"No. Why should I fear? I remember now--if it is not a dream--how,before I was a Wolf, I lay beside the Red Flower, and it was warm ."

All that day  sat in the cave tending his fire pot and  branches into it to see how they looked. He found a branch  him, and in the evening when Tabaqui came to the cave and  rudely enough that he was wanted at the Council Rock, he  Tabaqui ran away. Then  went to the Council, still laughing.

 the Lone Wolf lay by the side of his rock as a sign that  of the Pack was open, and Shere  with his following -fed wolves walked to and  openly being flattered.   to , and the fire pot was between  knees. When  all gathered together, Shere  began to speak--a thing he  have dared to do when  was in his prime.

"He has no right," whispered . "Say so. He is a dog's son.  be frightened."

 sprang to his feet. "Free People," he cried, "does Shere  the Pack? What has a tiger to do with our leadership?"

"Seeing that the leadership is yet open, and being asked to speak--"Shere  began.

"By whom?" said . "Are we all jackals, to fawn on this cattlebutcher? The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack alone."

There were yells of "Silence, thou man's cub!" "Let him speak. He  our Law"; and at last the seniors of the Pack thundered: "Let  Wolf speak." When a leader of the Pack has missed his kill, he  the Dead Wolf as long as he lives, which is not long.

 raised his old head wearily:--

"Free People, and  too, jackals of Shere , for twelve seasons  led  to and from the kill, and in all that time not one has  or maimed. Now I have missed my kill.  know how that  made.  know how  brought me up to an untried buck to make  known. It was cleverly done. Your right is to kill me here  Council Rock, now. Therefore, I ask, who comes to make an end of  Wolf? For it is my right, by the Law of the Jungle, that   by one."

There was a long hush, for no single wolf cared to fight   death. Then Shere  roared: "Bah! What have we to do with  fool? He is doomed to die! It is the man-cub who has lived . Free People, he was my meat from the first. Give him to me.  weary of this man-wolf folly. He has troubled the jungle for . Give me the man-cub, or I will hunt here always, and not  one bone. He is a man, a man's child, and from the marrow of  I hate him!"

Then more than half the Pack yelled: "A man! A man! What has a man to  us? Let him go to his own place."

"And turn all the people of the villages against us?" clamored . "No, give him to me. He is a man, and none of us can look  the eyes."

 lifted his head again and said, "He has eaten our food. He  with us. He has driven game for us. He has broken no word of  of the Jungle."

"Also, I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted. The worth of  is little, but  honor is something that he will  for," said  in his gentlest voice.

"A bull paid ten years ago!" the Pack snarled. "What do we care forbones ten years old?"

"Or for a pledge?" said , his white teeth bared under his lip."Well are  called the Free People!"

"No man's cub can run with the people of the jungle," howled Shere ."Give him to me!"

"He is our brother in all but blood,"  went on, "and  would  here! In truth, I have lived too long. Some of  are eaters , and of others I have heard that, under Shere  teaching, go by dark night and snatch children from the villager's doorstep.Therefore I know  to be cowards, and it is to cowards I speak. It  that I must die, and my life is of no worth, or I would  in the man-cub's place. But for the sake of the Honor  Pack,--a little matter that by being without a leader  ,--I promise that if  let the man-cub go to his own place,  not, when my time comes to die, bare one tooth against . I  without fighting. That will at least save the Pack three lives.More I cannot do; but if  will, I can save  the shame that comes  a brother against whom there is no fault--a brother spoken  bought into the Pack according to the Law of the Jungle."

"He is a man--a man--a man!" snarled the Pack. And most of the  to gather round Shere , whose tail was beginning to switch.

"Now the business is in thy hands," said  to . "We can  more except fight."

 stood upright--the fire pot in his hands. Then he stretched  arms, and yawned in the face of the Council; but he was furious withrage and sorrow, for, , the wolves had never told him how  him. "Listen you!" he cried. "There is no need for this .  have told me so often tonight that I am a man (and indeed  have been a wolf with you to my life's end) that I feel your  true. So I do not call  my brothers any more, but sag [dogs],  man should. What  will do, and what  will not do, is not  say. That matter is with me; and that we may see the matter , I, the man, have brought here a little of the Red Flower , dogs, fear."

He flung the fire pot on the ground, and some of the red coals  tuft of dried moss that flared up, as all the Council drew back  before the leaping flames.

 thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twigs lit , and whirled it above his head among the cowering wolves.

"Thou art the master," said  in an undertone. "Save   death. He was ever thy friend."

, the grim old wolf who had never asked for mercy in his life,  piteous look at  as the boy stood all naked, his long blackhair tossing over his shoulders in the light of the blazing branch  the shadows jump and quiver.

"Good!" said , staring round slowly. "I see that  are dogs. I  you to my own people--if they be my own people. The jungle is  me, and I must forget your talk and your companionship. But I will  merciful than  are. Because I was all but your brother in blood,I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray  to men  have betrayed me." He kicked the fire with his foot, and the  up. "There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack. But  a debt to pay before I go." He strode forward to where Shere   stupidly at the flames, and caught him by the tuft on his chin. followed in case of accidents. "Up, dog!"  cried. "Up,when a man speaks, or I will set that coat ablaze!"

Shere  ears lay flat back on his head, and he shut his eyes,  blazing branch was very near.

"This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council because he  killed me when I was a cub. Thus and thus, then, do we beat  we are men. Stir a whisker, , and I ram the Red Flower  gullet!" He beat Shere  over the head with the branch, and  whimpered and whined in an agony of fear.

"! Singed jungle cat--go now! But remember when next I come to  Rock, as a man should come, it will be with Shere   my head. For the rest,  goes free to live as he pleases.   kill him, because that is not my will. Nor do I think that  sit here any longer, lolling out your tongues as though  , instead of dogs whom I drive out--thus! Go!" The fire  furiously at the end of the branch, and  struck  left round the circle, and the wolves ran howling with the  their fur. At last there were only , , and  wolves that had taken  part. Then something began to  inside him, as he had never been hurt in his life before, and  his breath and sobbed, and the tears ran down his face.

"What is it? What is it?" he said. "I do not wish to leave the jungle,and I do not know what this is. Am I dying, ?"

"No, Little Brother. That is only tears such as men use," said ."Now I know thou art a man, and a man's cub no longer. The jungle  indeed to thee . Let them fall, . They are ." So  sat and cried as though his heart would break; and  never cried in all his life before.

"Now," he said, "I will go to men. But first I must say farewell to ." And he went to the cave where she lived with Father Wolf,  cried on her coat, while the four cubs howled miserably.

" will not forget me?" said .

"Never while we can follow a trail," said the cubs. "Come to the foot  hill when thou art a man, and we will talk to thee; and we will  the croplands to play with thee by night."

"Come soon!" said Father Wolf. "Oh, wise little frog, come again soon;for we be old, thy mother and I."

"Come soon," said Mother Wolf, "little naked son of mine. For, listen,child of man, I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs."

"I will surely come," said . "And when I come it will be to layout Shere  hide upon the Council Rock. Do not forget me! Tell  the jungle never to forget me!"

The dawn was beginning to break when  went down the , to meet those mysterious things that are called men.

