Scientific Papers (www..org)
Journal of Knowledge Management, Economics and Information Technology


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance
in Construction Project Delivery in ,
 State, Nigeria
Authors:   , Department of
 Building,   University, -,  State,
 Nigeria, @.edu.;  Sunday
 , Department of Building, Federal University of
 Technology, ,  State, Nigeria; 
 , Department of Building, 
  University, -,  State, Nigeria
Most of the construction projects delivered in ,  State for public
use depict evidence that they were not successfully executed. These effects
result in time and cost overruns, poor project execution and outright
abandonment. These could be attributed to lack of technical know-how on
specific project types and corruption tendencies amongst others. This study
focuses on factors affecting contractors performance in construction project
delivery in ,  State with a view to enhancing their performance in
construction project delivery. It assesses the success criteria for project
performance in the study area; the causes of non-performance of contractors
in project delivery in the study area; and evaluates factors for improving
contractors performance in project delivery. A well-structured
questionnaire was used to harness information from construction
stakeholders. Data was analyzed using mean item score and single factor
analysis of variance. The results indicated that the top three criteria for
contractors performance were completion to time, budget and required
quality. The results also showed that quality related factors, project
management related factors and procurement related factors were factors
affecting contractor's performance the most. Furthermore, the study
revealed that contractors performance could be improved through
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
appropriate planning, good leadership and good communication. It was
concluded that to improve performance of contractors on construction
projects, appropriate planning, good leadership and good communication
must be enhanced.

Keywords: contractor performance,  state, construction project
delivery, performance factors.
Introduction

The goal of all parties (owners, consultants, contractors, subcontractors and
suppliers) involved in construction projects in either the public or private is
to successfully complete the project on schedule, within planned budget,
with the highest quality and in the safest manner. , (), remarked
that construction projects are embarked upon with a view to achieving the
key objectives of cost, schedule while meeting the quality standard initially
set. As noted or revealed by  (), construction projects in Nigeria
and the world over are confronted with a lot of complexities and ambiguities
due basically to uncertainties in meeting their respective due dates.
Unfortunately, the construction industry in Nigeria witnessed an
unprecedented fall in the standards of construction projects delivery;
Projects were poorly conceived, badly planned and executed
unprofessionally. The life span of most construction projects in Nigeria is
unpredictable as there are many abandoned projects littering everywhere as
a result of poor planning (, ;  and , ; ,
). Most capital projects fail and are abandoned in different stages of
their development, while others that were delivered performed poorly in
delivering intended services. Frequent cases of failed and abandoned public
sector projects are consistently causing serious nightmare to all the
stakeholders within the construction industry ( and , ;
, ).  () lamented the alarming figures representing
abandoned public sector projects in Nigeria. The Presidential Project
Assessment Committee () set up in March , by President 
 to look into cases of abandoned Federal Government projects in
Nigeria, reported or indicated that there were about , abandoned
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
projects that would require an estimated sum of . trillion to complete.
Even if the government does not embark on any new project, it will take an
equivalent of over five years budgeting about . trillion annually to get
them completed bearing in mind the non-inclusion of cost overruns and
delays (, ).
 In ,  State, most of the construction projects delivered
for public use depict evidence that they were not successfully executed. The
resultant effects were incidences of schedule and cost overruns, low quality
projects and outright abandonment. This could be as a result of lack of
experience from the contractors in executing the projects, lack of the
knowledge in handling specific type of projects and corruptible tendencies
amongst others. With this in mind, it would be interesting to view what
factors project parties consider as important factors for a contractor to be
successful in project delivery. But little research has been done from the
stakeholders perspective. This study investigates how to improve the
performance of contractor in project delivery perspective.
 An examination of the relevant recent literature indicates that
construction projects are frequently completed with large cost overruns,
extended schedules and quality concerns. There are many reasons and
factors which are attributed to such problem. In US, Long et ., (),
remarked that performance problem arise in large construction projects due
to many reasons such as incompetent designers/contractors, poor
estimation and change management, social and technological issues, site
related and improper techniques and tools.  () stated that the
main performance problem can be divided into two groups: (a) unrealistic
target setting (i.. planning) or () causes originating from the actual
construction (in many cases for deviation from both sources.
 Generally, performance dimensions may have one or more
indicators and could be influenced by various project characteristics and
stakeholders. In construction project delivery, there are several parties that
affect project performance, one of them is contractor. Greater percentages of
projects are executed by contractors in Nigeria but have largely been met
with poor quality. In Nigeria, the performance of contractors in project
delivery is apparently below expectations. It is not uncommon to have local
projects that are not been completed or significantly delayed. This poor
performance has huge implication in terms of competitiveness. Contractors
perform awfully regarding project delivery due to poor management skills,
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
lack of technical and professional staff as well as poor skilled and unskilled
labour. While attempting to directly examine and identify their causes as
well as ways to avoid them, many view the client-contractor relationship as
having the greatest impact ( and , ).
Literature Review
An examination of relevant literature indicates that most problems
encountered in construction industry are due to contractors related
problems. Common contractor-related problems are that the project is not
completed or delivered within the specified period; reduced quality; use of
unspecified materials; excessive budgets; unqualified employees safety
problems such as project site accidents. This is no doubt, has significant
negative effect on the productivity of the industry and its contribution to the
GDP ( and , ).
 This notwithstanding, the contribution of contractors to
construction industry cannot be overemphasized. Contractors rank among
the most essential and important stakeholders needed in the delivery of
construction projects. The contractor is the building expert and as such
must be capable of delivering a project without a risk being placed on the
client who is saddled with the ownership and occupation risks. Industry
reports such as  () and  () have indicated the need for
improvement in productivity/project delivery through the use of
performance improvement measures. Therefore, if the performance of
Nigerian contractors in project delivery must be improved, it is pertinent to
seek for ways and factors to improve their performance in project delivery.
Identifying ways and factors of improving contractor` performance in
project delivery, the client will benefit most as contractors will deliver
projects without a risk being placed on the client who is saddled with the
ownership and occupation risks. Following the above revelation and in
response to non-performance of contractors in project delivery, the reasons
for the underperformance of contractors in Nigeria in particular  State
were studied. This was with a view to suggesting possible remedial
measures. This study assessed criteria for project construction performance;
it also assessed the factors (established from literature) affecting contractors
performance in construction project delivery according to their relative
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
importance. In addition, the study evaluated factors for improving
contractor performance in project delivery.
 Success criteria are "measures by which success or failure of a
project or business will be judged". No single list of criteria is totally
comprehensive when it comes to a definition of success for a project.
Indeed, measuring project success is a complex task since success is
intangible and can hardly be agreed upon. People choose to define project
success depending on various preferences. A project manager has to
understand that his evaluation of project success not necessarily needs to be
as important as other stakeholders.  () states that the top
management and client are the most important stakeholders and that this is
something that the project managers have to adapt to. The general concept
of project success remains ambiguously defined because of varying
perceptions. Such a phenomenon also exists in the construction industry
where so many different parties are involved, including the client, the
architect, the contractor, the design team and various surveyors and
engineers. Each project participant will have his or her own view of success.
Moreover, the definition of success often changes from project to project
depending on the participants, scope of services, project size, project
complexity, sophistication of the owner related to the design of facilities,
technological implications and a variety of other factors. Researches on
project success show that it is impossible to generate a universal checklist of
project success criteria suitable for all projects. On the other hand, common
trends relating to success criteria often develop not only with an individual
project but across the industry as we relate success to the perceptions and
expectations of the owner, designer, or contractor (, ). Thus,
project managers need better understanding of critical success/failure
factors and how to measure them.
 Early main criteria for success were assumed to be cost, schedule
and quality. The iron triangle of project management emphasizes the
relationships among cost, schedule and quality. The golden triangle of
project management emphasizes the relationships among cost, schedule,
quality and people by placing people at the Centre of the iron triangle.
People are the one element that ties the other elements together. The
emphasis on people in the golden triangle helps maintain a balance among
cost, schedule and quality. Later more potentially competing criteria like
the satisfaction of all stakeholders were defined.
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 

  () remarked that project performance
measurement include time, budget, safety, quality and overall client
satisfaction.  () stated that project performance measurement
an improvement of cost, schedule and quality for design and construction.
Long et ., () stated that a project performance measurement is related
to time, budget, quality, specification and stakeholders` satisfaction. 
et ., () identified project performance categories such as people, cost,
time, quality, safety and health, environment, client satisfaction and
communication. Mic ̇hell et ., () stated that timely completion of a
construction project is frequently seen as a major criterion of project success
by clients, contractors and consultant alike.
 The concept of project performance in a construction project
according to some researchers can be evaluated only when the performance
criteria or evaluation dimensions are adequately defined. Project
performance can be measured and evaluated using a large number of
performance indicators that could be related to various dimensions
(groups). Although criteria for project performance vary according to
individuals and organizations, generally, in any project the evaluation
dimensions correspond to the traditional constraints of time, cost, and
quality parameters, also known as iron triangle (Atkinson, ). However,
these are not the only criteria. For instance,  () excluded
quality as a criterion of success and added two additional criteria viz.
satisfying profit or fee goals and having no legal claims. So also according
to  and  (), a project is termed successful if it passes four
success test criteria of the time criterion (completed on time); the cost or
money criterion (completed within budget); the effectiveness criterion
(completed in accordance with the original set performance and quality
standards); and client's satisfaction criterion (accepted by the intended users
or clients whether the client is internal or from outside the organization).
Minimizing construction aggravation is yet another criterion that is
considered to determine project success. According to  et ., ()
criterion such as time, cost, quality, client satisfaction, client changes,
business performance, health and safety can be employed. Another
interesting way of evaluating project performance is through two common
sets of indicators Pheng and , (), the first set is related to the
owners, users, stakeholders and the general public; these groups of people
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
will look at project performance from the macro viewpoint. The second
comprises the developer and the contractors; these groups of people will
look at project performance from the micro viewpoint. The criteria for
project performance according to  () are that the project is
completed on time, completed to budget, completed to quality
requirements, meets clients` expectations and needs, has happy
stakeholders, exceed expectations, meet profits/fee goals, satisfy all
requirements of stakeholders and is completed safely, have no legal claims,
minimizes aggravation and have no conflict. This study also reveals that
criteria such as risk, conflict, and safety though usually excluded and deliver
need to be reckoned. In the  construction industry, project
performance is traditionally evaluated using schedule, cost and quality
performance, also known as the "iron triangle" (Atkinson, ; , ).
Moreover, the impact of such factors on project success varies. An example
in point is the hierarchical model of project success proposed by , ,
and  (). Given this uncertainty there is doubt as to what factors
project stakeholders would consider as important to achieve project success.
Time, cost and quality are however, the three () predominant performance
evaluation dimensions.
 Construction project performance remains a prominent issue in
project delivery all over the world. This is so because construction projects
involve defined objectives which must be achieved and numerous which
need to be efficiently utilized. The need for participants involvement in
construction project delivery to develop and use tools to improve their
efficiency and effectiveness in project delivery was emphasized in UK and
Sweden (Robinson et ., ).
 A number of studies have been carried out to determine the various
performance factors in construction projects. , () reported that
the impact of the project management related factors-organization
structure, project manager training, frequency of design meeting and
frequency of design report on design phase cost performance. In East
African countries, the factors affecting cost performance are: project
managers competence, owners competence, top management support,
project manager` coordination and feedback by the participants, decision
making, coordination among project participants, social conditions,
economical condition and climatic conditions. Coordination among project
participants was seen as the most significant of all the factors having
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
maximum influence on cost performance ( and , ). , 
and  () examined factors affecting the success of a construction
project. Five major groups of independent variables, namely project related
factors, project procedures, project management actions, human related
factors, and external environment were identified as crucial to project
success.  () noted that a control system is an important element
to identify factors affecting project effort. Pheng and  () obtained
that human factors played an important role in determining the
performance of a project. The relationship between the client and the
contractor is seen as one of the most important necessities for successful
project delivery ( and ,  and  and ,
).  () conducted a research on factors affecting contractor's
performance in construction work in India. They found out that Top
management support/time-related factors, cost related factors, scope related
factors, quality related factors, owner-organization related factors,
funding/cash flow related factors and Project characteristics-related factors
affected contractors performance the most.
 Research has documented that sophisticated and specialized clients
having a better chance of success are critical variables. The nature of the
client (whether from the public or private sector), the clarity of the project
mission, their competence in terms of ability to brief, make decisions, and
define roles, have been found to significantly contribute to the quality of a
project.
 According to  and  (), project scope, nature of
the project and complexity of the project (the project characteristics) also
have an influence on the performance of projects; in addition to the
environment in which a project operates.  and Robinson ()
studied factors affecting performance of contractors as categorized into nine
related factors, which are; economic factor, environmental factors, natural
factor, political factor, time factors, quality factors, productivity factors,
health and safety factors, client satisfaction factor. Long et . ()
identified  possible factors responsible for poor performance of
construction contract. He further categorized these factors into eight groups
as; factors caused by clients, factors caused by contractors, factors caused by
consultants, factors related to subcontractors, factors related to material and
labour, contractual relationship factors, project procedures and external
environment factors. Unfortunately, Long et . () observed that due to
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
many reasons, project performance and project success are not common in
the construction industry especially in developing countries. This may not
be unconnected with the fact that construction project development
involves numerous parties, various processes, different phases and stages of
work and a great deal of input from both the public and private sectors with
the major aim of bringing the project to a successful conclusion. In citation
of previous studies, little attention is being paid to poor construction
performance in  State, Nigeria.
 Adelback and  () identified climate conditions at site as
the most important factor affecting the performance of construction projects
by owner, consultants and contractors because it affects the productivity
and time performance of project. In a study of the Thai highway contractors,
 () observed that the construction business is a sector
that relies primarily on high utilization of machinery. Further,  and 
() contended that equipment has long been considered as one of the
key factors for improving contractors ‟ capability in performing their work
efficiently and effectively. However, contractors usually face difficulties in
getting all the equipment they need, especially capital investments, in the
acquisition phase, due to financial constraints.
Methodology
The study investigated into factors affecting contractor's performance in
construction project delivery in ,  State, Nigeria. Questionnaire
survey was adopted in gathering relevant data from parties involved in
construction projects in  State. Sixteen () contractors and  clients
were purposively sampled. The population of Architects, Builders and
Quantity Surveyor obtained from  State Ministry of Works and
Housing were ,  and  respectively. Proportional sampling technique
was used to select Architects, Builders and Quantity Surveyors. %
Architects, % Builders and % Quantity Surveyors were selected. By
doing this, ,  and  respondents for Architects, Builders and Quantity
Surveyors, respectively were sampled. The questionnaire was used to elicit
the opinion of parties involved in construction project on factors affecting
contractor's performance in construction project delivery in the study area.
The participants were asked to rank and score the listed factors on scale  to
 where -least important and -highest important factor. A section of the
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
questionnaire also contained participants socio-economic information. The
respondents were drawn from , the capital city of  State because
large volumes of construction activities in the state take place in the state
capital, . This study identified eighteen contractors performance
criteria, twelve factors affecting contractors performance and eighteen
factors for improving contractors performance from previous studies and
presented to the respondents to rank according to their relative importance.
Out of the total respondents sampled, , , ,  and  filled questionnaire
was retrieved from Clients, Contractors, Architects, Builders and Quantity
Surveyors respectively. The analysis of data collected was done using mean
item score and one-way analysis of variance. Mean score item was used to
indicate the relative position of each factor using equation .
      =  
 ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ()
  ;
 =     
  =       �
Results and Discussion
In order to sufficiently examine stakeholders preference for the factors
affecting contractor's performance in construction project delivery in ,
 State, the respondents were asked to provide background information
to show suitability in completing the questionnaire. Table  shows the socio-
economic characteristics of the stakeholders in construction industry. It
comprised information related to type of organization, years of experience,
educational qualification, and designation of the respondent and
professional qualification. The result on the type of qualification shows that
out of seventy five () respondents that filled the questionnaire, forty three
() representing .% were private owned, thirty two () representing
.% were Government owned. This implied that various ownership
distribution of construction firms in  South  were adequately
represented indicating that information obtained was not biased.
 More so, two () respondent representing .% have - years of
experience, twenty five () respondents representing .% have - years
of experience, twenty two () respondents representing .% have -
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
years of experience and ten () respondents representing .% have -
years of experience. The result suggested that the respondents have acquired
adequate experience, indicating their suitability for this study. Hence, the
information supplied was reliable.
 Analyzing the educational qualification of respondents, seven ()
respondents representing .% had / qualification, fourteen ()
respondents representing .% had / qualification, twenty seven
() respondents representing .% had BSC/ qualification, twenty
six () respondents representing .% had / qualification, one
() respondent representing .% had PhD qualification. This indicated that
the questions provided in the questionnaire were well understood by the
respondent considering their level of education. The results on the
designation of the respondents showed that .% of respondents were
clients, .% were contractor, .% were architects, .% were quantity
surveyors, and .% were builders. This implied proper distribution of
respondents.
 Furthermore, the results revealed that .% of respondents were
Members of Nigeria Institute of Building (), .% of the respondents
were Members of Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors, .% of the
respondents were member of Nigeria Institute of Architects, and .% of the
respondents were member of Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria.

Table : Background Information of Respondents
Background
Information

Frequency

Percent (%)

Cumulative
Percent

Type of organization
Government owned  . .
Private owned  . .
Total  .
Years of experience
- years  . .
- years  . .
- years  . .
- years  . .
Missing  .
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
Total  .
Educational
Qualification
/  . .
/  . .
BSC/  . .
/
PhD
Total



.
.
.
.
.

Designation
Client  . .
Contractor  . .
Architect  . .
Quantity surveyor  . .
Builder  . .
Total  .
Professional
qualification
  . .
  . .
  . .
  . .
Total  .

Performance Criteria for Construction Project Delivery
Table  shows the criteria for construction project performance. The table
shows that completed to time is ranked 1st as the most important criterion
with a mean score of ., while completed to budget and completed to
quality requirement ranked 2nd and 3rd with a mean score of . and ..
This suggest that time, cost and quality are the most important criteria for
determining the performance of projects. Other important criterion for
construction project performance as indicated by respondents were health
and safety (mean score = .), completed safely (mean score = .), meet
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
client expectation and needs (mean score = .) and client satisfaction
(mean score = .). The least important factors were risk minimization
(mean score = .), satisfy all requirements of stakeholders and business
performance (mean score = .), and no legal claim (mean score = .).
 A single factor analysis of variance was conducted to test for
differences among the means of performance criteria for construction
project delivery. As shown in Table , the analysis was significant (= ., 
=.). This results suggest that completion of project to time ( = .,
 = .) really do have an effect on construction project delivery.

Table : Mean Ranking of Performance Criteria for Construction Project
Delivery
/ Criteria Mean
Score
Coefficient
of
Variance
Rank
 Completed to time . . 
 Completed to budget . . 
 Completed to quality
requirements
. . 
 Health and safety . . 
 Completed safely . . 
 Meet client expectation
and needs
. . 
 client satisfaction . . 
 Meet profit/fee goals . . 
 Directing and control . . 
 Risk minimization . . 
 Satisfy all requirements
of stakeholders
. . 
 Business performance . . 
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
 Exceed expectation . . 
 Has happy stakeholder . . 
 Minimizing
construction
aggravation
. . 
 client changes . . 
 Have no conflict . . 
 Have no legal claim . .  Table : Test of Difference among the Means of Performance Criteria
Source of
Variation 

 MS 
-
value  crit
Between Groups
.
 
.

.

.

.

Within Groups
.



.

Total
.




 = sum of squares,  = degrees of freedom, MS = mean score

Factors Affecting Contractors Performance

Table  shows the mean score of factors affecting contractor's performance
in construction project delivery and they were ranked accordingly using
mean score. Fifty seven () factors affecting contractors performance were
identified from literature (Appendix A) and were carefully grouped into
twelve () groups as presented in Table . From the table, quality related
factors ranked 1st (mean score = .) as the most important factors affecting
contractors performance, closely followed by project management related
factors (mean score = .). Procurement related factors ranked 3rd with a
mean score of .. This shows that the specified quality by clients,
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
procurement systems used for projects, and the project management
capabilities of contractors have great effects on their performances.
 The least important factors affecting contractors performance was
owners organization related factors with a mean score of ., other factors
were relatively important as ranked by the respondents. This suggests that
all the stakeholders in a project have an input in determining the
performance level of contractors. The management of the contracting firm,
the clients firm and the design team have a role to play in the performance
of contractors. In order to test for differences among the means of factors
affecting contractors performance, a single factor analysis of variance was
conducted. The result is as presented in Table . With -value (.)
greater than -value (.), this shows that the analysis was significant.
Therefore, it can be inferred that the performance of contractors is affected
by factors relating to project management, procurement, clients and clients
organizations, design team, contracting firm, top management, project
scope and quality, and cash flow. The findings of this study support the
findings in India and Thailand by  and , () and 
and  () which indicated that top management support/time-
related factors, cost related factors, scope related factors, quality related
factors, owner-organization related factors, funding/cash flow related factors
and Project characteristics-related factors affected contractors performance
the most.

Table : Mean Ranking of the Factors Affecting Contractors Performance
Groups Count Sum






Ran

Project management related
factors

 . . .


.


Project related factors  . . .

.


Procurement related factors  . . .

.


Client related factors  . . .

.


Design team related factors  . . .

.


Human related factors  . . .

.


Contractor related factors  . . .

.


Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
Top management related factors 
.
 . .

.


Scope related factors  .
.
 .

.


Quality related factors  . . #DIV/!

.


Owners organization related
factors  . . .

.


Cash flow related factors 
.

.
 .

.



Table : Test of Difference among the Factors Affecting Contractors
Performance
Source of
Variation   MS  -value  crit
Between Groups .  . . . .
Within Groups .  .
Total . 

Methods of Improving Contractor's Performance

The methods of improving contractors performance in construction project
delivery in ,  State, Nigeria was assessed as shown in Table .
Table  shows that having appropriate planning with a mean score of .
was ranked the 1st, followed by good leadership with a mean score of ..
Other effective methods by which the performance of contractors could be
improved were good communication (mean score = .), stakeholder
relationship (mean score = .), accountability (mean score = .),
documentation (mean score = .), and employee empowerment (mean
score = .). This shows that the performance of contractors can be
improved upon by both the contractor and the client. The contractor can
empower his employee with the aim of improving their workmanship and
productivity, as this will in turn improve the work being carried out for the
contractor. Also the contractor can invest in proper documentation of work
on site, accountability and communication. All of these methods have
positive influence on the performance of contractors in project delivery. On
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
the other hand, the level at which the client relates with contractor and the
manner and level of variation made by the client have impacts on the level
of performance of contractor.
 Test of difference for the methods of improving contractors
performance (Table ) shows that the differences among the methods are
significant (=., = .). This suggests that appropriate planning;
good leadership, good communication, stakeholder relationship,
accountability, documentation, control and administrative system, effective
contractors and workers relationship, employee empowerment, and
minimizing variation can influence the performance of contractors in
project delivery. This finding corroborates the report by  and Robinson
() which indicated that stakeholder relationship, good communication,
timely documentation, minimizing variation, and appropriate planning are
key ways to improve the performance of contractors in project delivery.

Table : Methods of improving Contractor Performance
/ Factors Mean
score
Coefficient of
variance
Rank
 Having appropriate planning . . 
 Good leadership . . 
 Good communication . . 
 Stakeholder relationship . . 
 Taking accountability . . 
 Timely documentation . . 
 Comprehensive analysis . . 
 Control and administrative
system
. . 
 Understanding peoples
requirements and needs

.
. 
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
 Effective contractors and
workers relationship
. . 
 Serviceability . . 
 Employee empowerment . . 
 Existence of key personnel . . 
 Reliability . . 
 Minimizing variation . . 
 Conformance . . 
 Hassle free building solution . . 
 Less paper work . . 

Table : Test of Difference among the Methods for Improving Contractors
Performance
Source of Variation   MS  -value  crit
Between Groups .  . . . .
Within Groups .  .
Total . 

Conclusions
Based on the analysis it was found that most of the respondents were from
privately owned organizations and most of the respondents were
construction project consultants. The most significant criteria for
contractors performance in construction project in ,  state
Nigeria are when projects are completion to time, completion to budget and
completion to quality requirement. Quality related factors, project
management related factors and procurement related factors are the most
important factors affecting contractors performance in ,  state
Nigeria. Finally, to assist contractors improve their performance on
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
construction projects, appropriate planning, good leadership and good
communication must be enhanced.
References
[]. Adelback, ., & , . (). Success Factors in Large
Infrastructure Projects: The contractor's perspective. Sweden:
 University of Technology.
[]. , . (). Containing Failure and Abandonment of Public
Sector Construction Projects in Nigeria. A Seminar Paper of the
Department of Project Management Technology, for a .hD of
the Federal University of Technology, , Nigeria, December,
. Pp -.
[]. Atkinson, . (). Project management: Cost, time and quality,
two best guesses and a phenomenon, it's time to accept other
success criteria. International Journal of Project Management, ,
 (), pp. –.
[]. , . . and Robinson, . ( ). Client versus contractor
perspectives on project success criteria. International Journal of
Project Management, ,-.
[].   .. and   .., (), Developing a
benchmark model for project construction time performance in
 , Building and Environment, Vol. , PP.  – .
[].   On,   .. and   ..,
(), : a Web-based construction Project Performance
Monitoring System, Automation in Construction, Vol. , PP. -
.
[]. , ..., , .. and , .. (). Critical Success
Factors for Different Project Objectives. Journal of Construction
Engineering and Management. Vol. , No., pp -.
[]. , . (). Rethinking construction. The report of the
Construction Task Force on the scope for improving quality and
efficiency in UK construction. Department of the Environment,
Transport and the Regions, London.
[]. , .. and , .. (). Factors affecting cost performance:
Evidence from Indian construction projects. International Journal of
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
Project Management, (): –. :
./.....
[]., . A. (). Project management actions to improve
design phase cost performance, Journal of Management in
Engineering,(): –.
[]. , . (). Constructing the Team. Final Report of the
Government /Industry Review of Procurement and Contractual
Arrangements in the UK Construction Industry, July, . ISBN:
.-.
[]. Long, . ., , ., , . and , . . ().
Large construction projects in developing countries: a case study
from Vietnam, International Journal of Project Management, Vol.
, PP. –.
[]. , ., , ., , ., , . and Pearl, .
(). Stakeholder perceptions of contractor time, cost and quality
management on building project. Proceedings:  World Building
Conference on Construction for Development. Cape Town, South
Africa, – May.
[]. , . (). Automated project performance control of
construction projects, Automation in Construction, Vol. , PP. -
.
[]. , ., . . , . , . . , and . A. 
(). Do people shape cities, or do cities shape people? The co-
evolution of physical, social, and economic change in five major US
cities.  Working Paper No. .
[]. , A. . and , . . (). Causes of
construction delay: Traditional contracts. International Journal of
Project Management, , , pp. –.
[].  A. A. (). A Quantitative Assessment Of The Cost And
Time Impact Of Variation Orders On Construction Projects. Journal
of Engineering, Design and Technology.  (): -.
[]., . (). Public Procurement Report . A
Publication of the Centre for Social Justice Ltd by Guarantee, .
 -. ISBN:----, www.-.org
[]. , O. and , O. (). Abandonment of
Building Projects in Nigeria- A Review of Causes and Solutions.
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
International Conference on Chemical, Civil and Environmental
Engineering () - March, Dubai.  -.
[]. , . () Avoiding performance failure payment
deductions in / projects: Model of critical success factors.
Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities,  (). pp. -.
 - Available from: http://eprints...uk/
[]. Pheng, . . and , . . (). Environmental factors and
work performance of project managers in the construction
industry, International Journal of Project Management, Vol. , PP.
 – .
[]. , . . . and , . O. (). Critical COMs
of success in large-scale construction projects: Evidence from
Thailand construction industry. International Journal of Project
Management, , -
[]. , . . and , .. (). A Study of Failure
and Abandonment of Public Sector Driven Civil Engineering
Projects in Nigeria: An Empirical Review. American Journal of
Scientific and Industrial Research.  -. :-.
Appendix
Appendix A: Factors Affecting Contractor Performance
Factors Mean Score
(..)
Ranking
Project management related factor
strong monitoring . 
effectiveness of coordination . 
adequate team selection . 
Training . 
effective project scheduling and budgeting . 
Effective communication . 
Integration of project action . 
development and motivation . 
project manager competence . 
decision making skills . 
Troubleshooting . 
Project related factors
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
sequencing of work according to schedule . 
Project complexity . 
Management labour relationship . 
Absenteeism rate through project . 
owners familiarity with project . 
Procurement related factor
procurement method . 
tendering method . 
Client related factor
project financing . 
client confidence in contractor . 
Client characteristic . 
owners risk aversion . 
client project management . 
client type and experience . 
Design team related factor
design team experience . 
project design complexity . 
mistake/delays in producing design document . 
Human related factor
client satisfaction . 
contractor characteristics . 
Stakeholder relationship . 
Manufacturer . 
Supplier . 
Contractor related factor
site management . 
Table . cont.
Factors Mean score
(..)
Ranking
contractor cash flow . 
effectiveness of cost control system . 
Supervision and involvement of subcontracting . 
speed of information flow . 
Top management support/time
completion on schedule . 
Factors Affecting Contractors Performance in Construction
Project Delivery in ,  State, Nigeria


Vol. VII, Issue 
August 
cost related factor . 
On-time completion . 
ensuring the lowest cost . 
ensuring completion within budget . 
technological issues . 
Scope related factor
capitalizing on a well-defined scope . 
potential for changes during construction . 
owner desire for flexibility to make change during
construction
. 
Quality related factor
desire to deliver quality products . 
Owners organization related factor
need for construction professional input during
design
. 
level of in-house management experience . 
Owner desire for single project contract . 
Owner desire for single construction contract . 
Funding/cash flow related factor
desire for early estimates . 
need for financing . 
risk and relationship related factor . 
Delaying or minimizing expenditure rate . 
amount of risk . 
minimizing adversarial relationship . 

